Add search pipeline documentation (#4204)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-pipelines/index.md

  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

```json
{
  "took" : 19,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 1,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 0.0,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "my_index",
        "_id" : "1",
        "_score" : 0.0,
        "_source" : {
          "message" : "This is a public message",
          "visibility" : "public"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

### Disabling the default pipeline for a request

If you want to run a search request without applying the default pipeline, you can set the `search_pipeline` query parameter to `_none`:

```json
GET /my_index/_search?search_pipeline=_none
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Removing the default pipeline

To remove the default pipeline from an index, set it to `null` or `_none`:

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings 
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline" : null
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings 
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline" : "_none"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Updating a search pipeline

> You can update a search pipeline dynamically using the Search Pipeline API. To update an existing search processor, make sure to specify its ID in the `tag` field.

Author: Reworded. Having multiple processors of the same type is mentioned in the "create pipeline" section (line 45).

---
layout: default
title: Search pipelines
nav_order: 100
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

# Search pipelines

> Search pipelines is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search pipelines in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search pipelines, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/6278).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search pipelines is an experimental feature and therefore is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search pipelines, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/6278).    
```

Author: I've used this wording before but let's ask @natebower's opinion if it should be changed.

Reviewer 2: We reopened the RFC for this feature: https://forum.opensearch.org/t/rfc-search-pipelines/12099 to use instead of the GH issue.

{: .warning}

> To integrate result rerankers, query rewriters, and other components that operate on queries or results, you can use _search pipelines_. Search pipelines make it easier for you to process search queries and search results right in OpenSearch, as opposed to building plugins or creating additional logic elsewhere in your application. Thus, you can customize search results without adding complexity to your application. Search pipelines also provide a mechanism for modularizing your processors so you can add and reorder them easily. 

Reviewer 2: Can we say something that indicates that it's easy to build these and not just integrate? So maybe "...build or integrate result rerankers...?" Also, I think instead of saying "...as opposed to building plugins or creating additional logic elsewhere in your application..." we want to say that building processors could reduce complexity in building plugins used in search requests by allowing the functionality of a plugin to be composed by multiple processors. Might be too wordy, but search processors are not there to replace plugins.

## Terminology

The following is a list of search pipeline terminology:

* _Search request processor_: a component that takes a search request (the query and the metadata passed in the request), performs some operation with or on the search request, and returns a search request.

> * _Search response processor_: a component that takes a search response and search request (the query, results, and metadata passed in the request), performs some operation with or on the search response, and returns a search response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Search response processor_: A component that takes a search response and search request (the query, results, and metadata passed in the request), performs some operation with or on the search response, and returns a search response.
```

> * _Search response processor_: A component that takes a search response and search request (the query, results, and metadata passed in the request), performs some operation with or on the search response, and returns a search response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* _Search response processor_: A component that takes a search response and search request (the query, results, and metadata passed in the request), performs an operation with or on the search response, and returns a search response.
```

> * _Processor_: either a search request processor or a search response processor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Processor_: Either a search request processor or a search response processor.
```

> * _Search pipeline_: an ordered list of processors that is integrated into OpenSearch. The pipeline intercepts a query, performs processing on the query, sends it to OpenSearch, intercepts the results, performs processing on the results, and returns them to the calling application, as shown in the following diagram. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Search pipeline_: An ordered list of processors that is integrated into OpenSearch. The pipeline intercepts a query, performs processing on the query, sends it to OpenSearch, intercepts the results, performs processing on the results, and returns them to the calling application, as shown in the following diagram. 
```

![Search processor diagram]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/search-pipelines.png)

> Both request and response processing for the pipeline are performed on the coordinator node so there is no shard-level processing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both request and response processing for the pipeline are performed on the coordinator node, so there is no shard-level processing.
```

> Both request and response processing for the pipeline are performed on the coordinator node so there is no shard-level processing.

Reviewer 3: Tip: If the meaning of "so" is "so that," it doesn't take a comma, but if it means "therefore," as it does here, it takes a comma.

{: .note}

## Search request processors

OpenSearch supports the following search request processors:

- [`script`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/script-processor/): Adds a script that is run on newly indexed documents.
- [`filter_query`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/filter-query-processor/): Adds a filtering query that is used to filter requests.

## Search response processors

OpenSearch supports the following search response processors:

- [`rename_field`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rename-field-processor/): Renames an existing field.

## Viewing available processor types

You can use the Nodes Search Pipelines API to view the available processor types:

```json
GET /_nodes/search_pipelines
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains the `search_pipelines` object that lists the possible request and response processors:

Reviewer 3: "available" instead of "possible"?

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

```json
{
  "_nodes" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "cluster_name" : "runTask",
  "nodes" : {
    "36FHvCwHT6Srbm2ZniEPhA" : {
      "name" : "runTask-0",
      "transport_address" : "127.0.0.1:9300",
      "host" : "127.0.0.1",
      "ip" : "127.0.0.1",
      "version" : "3.0.0",
      "build_type" : "tar",
      "build_hash" : "unknown",
      "roles" : [
        "cluster_manager",
        "data",
        "ingest",
        "remote_cluster_client"
      ],
      "attributes" : {
        "testattr" : "test",
        "shard_indexing_pressure_enabled" : "true"
      },
      "search_pipelines" : {
        "request_processors" : [
          {
            "type" : "filter_query"
          },
          {
            "type" : "script"
          }
        ],
        "response_processors" : [
          {
            "type" : "rename_field"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

In addition to the processors provided by OpenSearch, additional processors may be provided by plugins.
{: .note}

## Creating a search pipeline

> Search pipelines are stored in the cluster state. To create a search pipeline, you must configure an ordered list of processors in your OpenSearch cluster. You can have more than one processor of the same type in the pipeline. Each processor has a `tag` identifier that distinguishes it from the others. Tagging a specific processor can be helpful for error messages, especially if you add multiple processors of the same type.

Reviewer 3: The meaning of "for" in "for error messages" is a little ambiguous. Should it just be "in", or is there additional clarification we can add (in what way is it helpful)?

#### Example request

The following request creates a search pipeline with a `filter_query` request processor that uses a term query to return only public messages:

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_pipeline 
{
  "request_processors": [
    {
      "filter_query" : {
        "tag" : "tag1",
        "description" : "This processor is going to restrict to publicly visible documents",
        "query" : {
          "term": {
            "visibility": "public"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Retrieving search pipelines

> To retrieve existing search pipeline details, use the Search Pipeline API. 

Reviewer 3: Do we mean "To retrieve the details of an existing search pipeline"? As written, the details are doing the existing.

  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

```json
{
  "my_pipeline" : {
    "request_processors" : [
      {
        "filter_query" : {
          "tag" : "tag1",
          "description" : "This processor is going to restrict to publicly visible documents",
          "query" : {
            "term" : {
              "visibility" : "public"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
</details>

To view a particular pipeline, specify the pipeline name as a path parameter:

```json
GET /_search/pipeline/my_pipeline
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

You can also use wildcard patterns to view a subset of pipelines, for example:

```json
GET /_search/pipeline/my*
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Using a search pipeline

To search with a pipeline, specify the pipeline name in the `search_pipeline` query parameter:

```json
GET /my_index/_search?search_pipeline=my_pipeline
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

For a complete example of using a search pipeline with a `filter_query` processor, see [`filter_query` processor example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/filter-query-processor#example).

## Default search pipeline

> For convenience, you can set a default search pipeline on an index. Once your index has a default pipeline, you don't need to specify the `search_pipeline` query parameter with every search request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For convenience, you can set a default search pipeline for an index. Once your index has a default pipeline, you don't need to specify the `search_pipeline` query parameter in every search request.
```

> ### Setting a default search pipeline on an index

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Setting a default search pipeline for an index
```

> To set a default search pipeline on an index, specify the `index.search.default_pipeline` in the index's settings:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To set a default search pipeline for an index, specify the `index.search.default_pipeline` in the index's settings:
```

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings 
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline" : "my_pipeline"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> After setting the default pipeline on `my_index`, you can try the same search for all documents:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After setting the default pipeline for `my_index`, you can try the same search for all documents:
```

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Removing the default pipeline

To remove the default pipeline from an index, set it to `null` or `_none`:

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings 
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline" : null
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings 
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline" : "_none"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Updating a search pipeline

To update a search pipeline dynamically, replace the search pipeline using the Search Pipeline API. 

#### Example request

The following request upserts `my_pipeline` by adding a `filter_query` request processor and a `rename_field` response processor:

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_pipeline
{
  "request_processors": [
    {
      "filter_query": {
        "tag": "tag1",
        "description": "This processor returns only publicly visible documents",
        "query": {
          "term": {
            "visibility": "public"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ],
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "rename_field": {
        "field": "message",
        "target_field": "notification"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Search pipeline versions

> You can specify a version for your pipeline when creating it in the `version` parameter:

Reviewer 3: Do we mean "When creating your pipeline, you can specify a version for it in the `version` parameter"?

```json
PUT _search/pipeline/my_pipeline
{
  "version": 1234,
  "request_processors": [
    {
      "script": {
        "source": """
           if (ctx._source['size'] > 100) {
             ctx._source['explain'] = false;
           }
         """
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In subsequent search responses, the version is provided:

```json

> GET _search/pipeline/my_pipeline

Reviewer 4: Not really a "search response" here. Maybe "get pipeline response" ? (as in, "the response to a get pipeline request").
